Hey everybody, welcome to church.
It is so good to have you here whether you're here in the room or you're joining us online for another place.
Thanks for being here.
My name is Mark here with Angie and Aaron and Mary.
Man, it's great that we get to be in this place in a warm place and sing together.
I'm gonna invite you to stand your feet today as we begin our time.
We're gonna sing.
It's an opportunity for us to be reminded of who God is.
Let's sing.
Here we go.
It's a narrow road that leads to life, but I want to be honest.
It's a narrow road, your mercy's wide, because you're good on your promise.
Come on.
I've seen it in my life
for who you are to each and every one of us.
How you meet us here in this moment right now as we sing to you and lift up words that explain who you are and how you love us.
Jesus, I'm reminded as we approach Christmas that you came as a humble king who wanted to serve, who wanted to love, who wanted to know us.
What a privilege that is.
to know us.
Jesus, would you remind us of that?
Would you draw near to us?
No matter what we're facing right now, no matter what we're worried about, no matter when we doubt or we're afraid.
Jesus, remind us that you're always with us and we're never alone and that you love us.
That's powerful, Jesus.
You lift us up to you and your mighty name.
Hey, thanks so much for singing with us.
You can go ahead and grab a seat.
Hey, what's up everyone and welcome to Eagle Brook Online.
My name is Jeff Dodge.
I'm the online campus pastor and I love this time of year.
Christmas is almost here.
The parties and gatherings have already begun.
The seemingly daily arrival of Amazon packages loaded with presents inside.
The anticipation before Christmas is the best.
But before we go too far down that road, I just want to take a second to remind ourselves of why we celebrate in the first place.
Now you could skip to the end and just say Jesus, but there is
So much more than that.
See, for hundreds of years, God chose Israel to be the nation that He was going to reveal Himself to the rest of the world through.
God spoke through the prophets that He would trust with His message, and the prophets would tell stories of a coming Messiah.
One that would one day set them free, but because of Israel's sin, their disobedience, constantly worshiping other things than God, they were sent into exile.
The big bad empires of their day came and took them into captivity, destroying the temple where they once worship God, and they were left with nothing.
Nothing but these promises of a coming Messiah who would one day set right everything that went wrong.
Now the interesting thing of these prophecies is that they were so insanely specific, like so specific that critics of Christianity would claim that these stories were written after Jesus because there's no way that they could have known.
But thanks to a cave in the West Bank in 1947 was a preserved copy of these prophecies set the dating of them back 700 years before Jesus' birth.
They contained uncontrollable circumstances of his birth, life,
death and resurrection, and yet for the Israelite people in exile, there was no word from God.
Over 400 years of silence and waiting, generations came and went, and yet one day on a silent night, like Isaiah 9, 2 says, for those living in a land of deep darkness, a light has dawned, a light that wasn't just another prophet or messenger, but it was God Himself coming to earth to save us all.
That's why this season,
is so special.
And my hope for you and your family is that you do it all.
That you soak up all of the nostalgic moments, you get to see the smile on your kids' faces as they open their presence, and that we remember the greatest gift that we've ever been given, and that this is our reminder that that gift wasn't just for us, but it's for our neighbors, our coworkers, our family members, our friends.
We have some amazing Christmas services coming up.
Find one that works for you and your family and for someone that you can invite.
You can check out all of our in-person and online services at eaglebrookchurch.com slash Christmas.
And with that, I'm gonna hand it over to John for today's message.
I didn't take anything.
You can't even remember who said the table.
No, you didn't.
You said it crooked.
Crooked like you're at it.
Noisy nights.
All is not calm.
Family fights.
Every pie on the table must be vegan, gluten and dairy-free.
Sleep's not coming to me.
Until mid-genuary.
Silver bells ring.
Relative sing, wish that these earmuffs were noise canceling.
Extraverts say it's their best Christmas yet.
Introverts hide in the hallway closet.
Stressful, not restful on this Christmas.
No, all is not calm for us.
Oh boy, I don't know if you can relate to that on any level.
I know that I can, but hey everyone, thanks for joining us.
Wherever you are joining us from.
My name is John Alexander.
And if you have decided to brave this bitterly cold Midwest weekend way to go, you have earned some additional heavenly rewards for everyone else who are joining us online.
You know, we like you too.
It's just fine.
You stay warm.
Well, prior to the 1968 Olympics in Mexico City, every high jumper at the time used some version of two techniques.
It was the straddle jump or the scissors kick.
But then a young American named Dick Fosbury at the age of 21 on October 20th, 1968 won the gold medal and set an Olympic record.
How did he do that?
By using a technique that no one had seen before, she rather than going face down her feet first, Fosbury turned his back to the bar, arched his back,
and kicked his legs up and out.
Now broadcasters and coaches were stunned, fans didn't know what to think, and so they called it the Fosbury Flop.
No one had done this before, and now almost 60 years later, it's the only technique that high jumpers use.
What propelled Fosbury to try something different?
Well, it's because what he'd been doing wasn't working.
In fact, just five years earlier, he realized he wasn't naturally that good of a jumper.
In fact, he'd even failed to make his local athletic clubs high jump team as a teenager.
So if he was ever gonna succeed, he had to approach high jumping in a completely different way.
Today, in this third and final week of this series that we're calling all is not calm, I wanna propose that it may be time for your own Fosbury flop type of change.
And no, we don't want to see you hide jump, okay?
That wouldn't be good for any of us, you included.
But when it comes to life and rest, the question is what you're doing working?
Are you currently experiencing the kind of life, peace and rest that God intends?
If not, it may be time to approach all of it, life and rest in a completely different way, a way that might feel unfamiliar, even strange at first.
It's probably something
that you've heard about, hopefully have read about, but few of us, I find, have truly practiced, and it's this.
It's the Sabbath.
And now what is the Sabbath?
Well, according to Pete Scazero and author and pastor, he defines it this way.
He says the word Sabbath comes from the Hebrew word that means to cease, to stop working.
It refers to doing nothing related to work for a 24-hour period each week.
So there it is, one day a week.
24 hours, no work.
And some of you are thinking, that sounds incredible.
Stop right there.
I'm in.
Others of you are like, that sounds terrible.
I mean, I don't want to go without working for that long.
Working is my life.
And some of you are thinking, how is that possible with my life?
How can I possibly find 24 hours to stop
Working, and by the way, I'm not just referring to a paid job.
We're going to talk about working all the ways when it comes to the ways that we strive to produce.
But again, why would we do that?
Why would we Sabbath?
And that's a good question.
But three quick reasons.
It's because God did.
God said we should and Jesus.
practiced it.
Let's go through these quickly.
In the beginning, after God had created the heavens and the earth and every living thing in those first six days, Genesis 2.2 says, by the seventh day, God had finished the work he had been doing.
So on the seventh day, he rested from all his work.
So even in the beginning, God rested.
And if God takes a break from work one day a week, what do we think that humans need?
That's why God not only did it, he commanded it in the Old Testament.
When the Israelites were wandering the desert on their way to the promised land, and God was miraculously providing manna and quail for them to eat, he instructed them not to gather food on the seventh day.
Now this food was critical to their daily survival, and yet on that one day, they were commanded to rest from work, from striving, and trust that God was still provide.
And guess what?
He did.
God also made the Sabbath one of the 10 commandments.
Exodus 20 says, remember the Sabbath day by keeping it holy.
Six days you shall labor and do all your work.
But then he says, the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God on it.
You shall not do any work.
And again, I know in the 21st century, this seems crazy.
Who has the space?
the time to rest for a full day.
Why in the world would we do that?
Well, for one of those reasons, maybe the primary one, it says, the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy.
See, the Sabbath is holy.
It's a day that God blesses.
Now, if you've read the Bible at all, I'm guessing that some of you might be thinking, you know, John, that's all testament stuff.
And maybe that applied to the Israelites and the people back then, but what does that have to do with us today?
And that's a fair question, which is why Jesus has quite a bit to say about the Sabbath.
In fact, in all four gospels in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, Jesus addresses the Sabbath, but equally important.
He also seeks to expand people's understanding of it.
See, he wanted people to practice the Sabbath, but he wanted to
have them practice the Sabbath in a new, different, and much better way.
Let me take you to one of those examples.
See one of his disciples, Matthew, he shares about one of these encounters that Jesus had on and about the Sabbath in Matthew chapter 12.
It says verse one, at that time Jesus went through the grain fields on the Sabbath.
His disciples were hungry and began to pick some heads of grain and eat them.
When the Pharisees saw this, they said to him, look, your disciples are doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath.
So let's wait a second here.
Is Jesus allowing his disciples to knowingly violate one of God's 10 commandments?
A little backstory, some context is the Pharisees, this group of religious leaders, and they weren't all bad all the time, but they had created these
religious rules on top of the rules, and then had built a list of 39 types of activities that were forbidden on the Sabbath.
And back then, reaping grain was one of those rules that they had created.
Again, at least according to the Pharisees.
And so they're questioning why Jesus would allow his disciples to break what they considered to be God's law.
So Matthew goes on in verse nine.
It says, going on from that place, Jesus,
went into their synagogue and a man with a shriveled hand was there.
Now, this is still the Sabbath day.
They had one particular day back then.
And so trying to trap Jesus, the Pharisees ask, is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?
And Jesus said to them, if any of you has a sheep and it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will you not take hold of it and lift it out?
I'm like, yeah, we probably would do that.
And so Jesus reminds them how much more valuable a human life is than a sheep.
And so he concludes in verse 12, therefore it is lawful.
And here's the key phrase to do good on the Sabbath.
Therefore it's perfectly fine to reap grain and eat on the Sabbath.
So he tells the man with a shriveled hand, stretch out your hand.
And then Jesus miraculously heals this man's
hand, by the way, it's also completely fine to heal on the Sabbath.
Now, because of this, Matthew writes that the Pharisees immediately after all of this happened began plotting how to kill Jesus.
Why is that?
Why were they so enraged that Jesus was allowing his disciples to eat and he was healing a man's hand?
What is Jesus trying to teach the Pharisees?
What is Jesus trying to teach
His followers, what is Jesus trying to teach us?
And this is so critical to understand as we talk about the Sabbath, because ultimately Jesus' teaching comes down to the conflict between these two words and its religion versus gospel.
And this is what was upsetting the Pharisees so much when it comes to Jesus' teaching about the Sabbath.
Maybe let me explain it this way, Pastor Tim Keller.
in one of his sermons, his messages on this very story, he says, to imagine two people who do want to honor God with the Sabbath.
That's their end goal, but one person sees Sabbath as a rule that they cannot break and they think, oh boy, I better get this right.
I better start and stop the clock perfectly because if I mess up, God is not gonna be happy with me.
But the other person says, you know,
I'm already fully loved and accepted by God.
So why wouldn't I just rest and enjoy the life that God wants for me?
See, it's the same practice, but two completely different hearts.
Religion says, if I obey, then I'll be accepted.
But the gospel says, I'm accepted in Jesus.
Therefore, I obey.
Religion sees Sabbath as duty, the gospel, the good news that Jesus came to proclaim, it sees Sabbath as a gift of love.
And that's why Jesus concludes in Mark chapter two, verse 27, the Sabbath was made for man.
It's a gift, not man for the Sabbath.
This isn't a way that we get to God.
So the son of man Jesus is Lord, even of the Sabbath, Jesus.
seeks to reframe everything people thought they knew about the Sabbath.
See, we don't practice Sabbath to earn God's approval.
It's not a rule or a law to get what we need from God.
No, Sabbath is a gift from the God who wants to give good things.
And the only one who gives our souls real, rest in Christ, we already have his full approval if we put our faith in him.
And so we choose to obey and rest.
And before we go any further, can I ask you a question and get you to reflect for a moment?
How rested are you?
I mean, really?
Or maybe the deeper question is, you know, how are you doing?
Really?
Not the Minnesota nice passing in the hall version, not the automatic, you know, I'm fine.
Yeah, you had totally fine.
No, the version.
where you haven't slept in days because your three kids are always awake or the version where that medical uncertainty is keeping you up at night.
Where you feel stretched thin and anxious, overwhelmed and distracted because if we're honest, many of us are not fine.
Some of us are exhausted, even scared.
How's your soul, that inner place within you?
Because over the last couple of weeks of this series, we've really tried to establish all is not calm in many of our lives.
Whether by circumstance or our own choices, many of us are living in this haze of exhaustion.
But here's what often happens.
Rather than implementing some of the
biblical principles that Jason has tried to lay out the last couple of weeks, instead some new book or influencer or podcast or technique comes along that offers us a new promise of rest, margin and time saved.
And so we grasp at it, hoping beyond hope that it eases our awareness.
Let me ask you, have any of those techniques?
Truly made good on their promise to restore your soul.
E.J.
Sobota, he writes this, kind of a longer quote, but he says, our time-saving devices, technological conveniences and cheap mobility have seemingly made life much easier.
Yet with all this progress, we are ominously dissatisfied, he writes, our bodies wear Reagan, our spirits thirst, we have an inability to simply sit still and be.
He says, as we drown ourselves in 24-7 living, we seem to be able to do anything but quench our thirst for the life of God.
And so we have become perhaps the most emotionally exhausted, psychologically overworked, spiritually malnourished people in history.
Do you feel that on any level?
I know I do.
In fact, as soon as I started writing this message, can I just confess something to you?
I felt every bit of that quote always not calm in my soul.
The very morning I sat down to write this message.
I'd already done my research.
I was ready to go.
I was ready to write.
But I was coming off a day where I had sulked alone in our bedroom for a few hours.
It's called hiding.
Snapped at my kids and basically it just, you know, shut down emotionally until I went to bed at 8 p.m.
And even when I woke up the next day at 5 a.m., which is when I typically wake up, I still didn't feel restored.
And so I opened my Bible as I do, hoping it would recenter me, but my mind was still flooded with these anxious thoughts, a growing to-do list, and this heavy feeling like I wasn't doing anything well.
Can you relate to that at all?
Because maybe you've been there, or maybe you're even there, right?
Now, and so that's why I'm convinced, more than ever, that one of God's answers to the exhaustion that we feel is the Sabbath.
See, from the very beginning of creation, God designed Sabbath as an essential rhythm to our lives, and then the New Testament, Jesus comes along, he affirms it, and then he reframes Sabbath in a way that brings now the kind of soul healing, the rest of the week simply,
can't, and ultimately, practicing Sabbath is an act of faith.
So how do we practice Sabbath?
Well, five ways.
The first is this.
Do whatever brings you joy.
Jesus made it clear over and over.
The Sabbath is not meant to be a burden.
It's supposed to be a gift.
That's why Jesus insisted that he could heal and restore and that his disciples could eat on the Sabbath because the Sabbath is meant to be something good that we experience and enjoy.
We're supposed to do the things that replenish, restore, and rejuvenate our tired and weary souls.
But if we're honest, many of us, if we've heard messages about this before or even heard the word, we incorrectly view Sabbath as boring.
We picture it as a day or a period of time where we just sit around and do nothing.
We stare at the ceiling, maybe doze off.
Well, that might sound amazing to some and even to me, okay?
Because I love a good nap and not doing anything.
I'm fine with that.
To others, I know you.
To others, that sounds worse than a work day.
A guy named John Tyson, Pastor in New York, he used a phrase I love when talking
about the Sabbath and what we're supposed to do.
He calls it pleasure stacking.
In other words, on the Sabbath, we're supposed to do the things that bring us life and joy and then stack them together on top of one another.
For example, I was reading a book about the Sabbath and this one author says that every Friday at 5 p.m., their Sabbath begins by baking this massive chocolate chip cookie.
and then smothering it with vanilla ice cream while the cookies still warm, and then diving in with big spoons as a family before dinner.
John Tyson, he talks about the really special coffee that he brews in his Chemex, if you like that sort of thing.
The music he enjoys, the motorcycle rides that he takes, let me ask what brings you joy.
Do those things.
Do all of them in a period of time.
Go for a long walk.
Read a novel.
Go to a movie.
Play with your kids.
Take a nap if you want.
Work out.
Visit your favorite coffee shop.
Go fishing.
Go ice fishing.
That's miserable.
Go golfing.
Get down on the ground with your toddlers and play catch up with a friend historically.
Jewish rabbis even encouraged married couples to enjoy sex as part of the Sabbath because the point is on the Sabbath.
Do whatever brings you joy.
Psalm 34, 8 says, taste and see that the Lord is good.
He's Sabbath is meant to be this period of time that we taste and see the goodness of God and the things he's created.
And I get that maybe that feels selfish, but like the good father that he is, like a good parent that he is, God wants us to fully embrace the gifts that he has provided us.
Here's the key though.
We got to do the things that bring us joy
and replenish our souls.
See, I'm all for watching a show or two on Netflix, but if I spent my entire Sabbath binge watching a full season, I would feel empty afterward.
I know because I've done that.
Okay, that's from practice.
Do the things that fill your soul and fall within God's moral will that honor Him.
Psalm 42 verse one through two says, as the deer pants for streams of water.
So my soul pants for you.
My soul thirsts for God for the living God.
When can I go and meet with God?
What are the things that quench your thirst for God?
Brings you joy and then draws you closer to Him.
Enjoy the gift of Sabbath.
Do whatever brings you joy.
Second way to embrace Sabbath and do a well is to stop doing more.
Everything in culture pushes us to do more.
Work more, achieve more, buy more, sign up for more, consume more, schedule more, post more, prove more.
We're constantly hearing messages like, go big or go home.
You gotta crush the hustle, never slow down.
You get one life to live.
And listen, I'm all for working hard, planning well, and pursuing big dreams.
But after 42 years, I've realized something.
Those messages don't usually deliver on what they promise.
See, most people that I know who live at that kind of frenetic pace eventually burn out, break down, or blow up.
So what does the Sabbath do?
Sabbath gives us the chance to resist this cultural narrative that more is always better.
Just for a period of time to stop striving, stop proving, and stop performing.
Psalm 46, 10, Jason shared this last week.
That says, be still.
be still and know that I am God.
Sabbath is this day we get to be still long enough to intentionally reflect on questions like, who is truly in control of my life?
Who ultimately provides for me?
Who sustains my life?
Is it me or is it God?
Because it's the day we stop long enough to let our minds and bodies catch up from everything else we cease from doing more.
Now, practically,
what might we cease from?
And I know we're all in different periods of our lives, but here's just a few ideas.
Maybe it's just email, social media, the phone, just set it aside.
Just anything that feels like I'm trying to achieve schoolwork, students, you can use this one for just a short little window of time.
To do list, household chores, shopping, unless going to Costco genuinely feels your soul like it does mine, then you can go ahead, okay?
But the point is, these aren't rules.
That's why Jesus tried to break this all down.
You can figure out what feels like more or not.
The point is choose to lay down everything that feels like work or burdensome for one period of time a week.
And it's an act of faith because it reminds us, God is God.
I am not.
And so we stop.
We trust and we stop doing
more.
The third way to embrace Sabbath well is to put it on the calendar.
A couple of years ago, I set out to complete a triathlon.
It was just, I've told this before, but it was on a list of things I wanted to do before I turned 40, swim, bike run.
I mean, I thought, how hard this could, you know, could this be?
And because I run, you know, I can pedal a bike and swimming.
I've been there, done that.
But never mind that prior to this, an orthopedic surgeon had taken a look at the scans of both of my knees earlier that year and said, you know, you should probably hang up the running shoes.
Never mind, I didn't own a real bike that my helmet was way too small for my large head and I had never worn a wetsuit
or swam in open waters before.
I was just determined, so I got to training, you know, 12-week plan, swimming, biking, running, big deal.
I was ready.
But on race day, when I stood on the shores of White Bear Lake and looked out at the buoy's stretch across White Bear, marking how far we had to swim, I thought, oh, no.
What have I done?
Because up until that point, my swimming had consisted of these 25-yard laps in a pool where I could rest my arms on the wall every time I got tired.
This was not that.
So once the race began, reality set in.
I went from this confident freestyle to a breaststroke to a side stroke to simply lying on my back and letting the wetsuit float me like a pool noodle.
Every time I looked up, I thought, why am I doing this?
I should just let the rescue boat haul me in.
Well, what I didn't know at the time was that about halfway out in the lake, the water was low enough to stand.
There was a sandbar right in the middle.
So halfway through the swim, I walked.
I took a breather.
I regained my strength and I managed to finish the swim second to last, which means that I beat someone.
Okay, let's not forget that.
But you know, looking back, I realized something.
If I had known that this break was coming, that I could walk at the turnaround point.
If I had known there was a place to rest about halfway through, I think I would have swam differently.
I at least would have had more peace that I was going to make it, maybe had more energy, more confidence, more joy, maybe even taken third to last.
You never know.
I mean, I could have passed out of the person.
That's what the Sabbath is meant to be.
It's meant to be this built-in break, a weekly pause, part of the flow and rhythm of our lives.
One day, one stretch of time, a weekly sandbar, and it's not gonna happen on accident.
So you gotta put it on the calendar.
Now just, let me back up a second and remind you Jesus doesn't want us to get legalistic about this.
It doesn't have to be the same 24-hour window for everyone, and maybe for some of us 24 hours feels impossible.
So start with six hours, or maybe 12.
Personally, for me, I aim for Friday at noon to Saturday at noon.
It fits the flow of my week.
Yes, I still have to take care of my kids.
There's things I gotta do, but put it on the calendar where it fits.
For you, even athletes know you can't train 24-7.
Muscles need time to replenish, restore, and repair.
If they don't, they break down and our souls are no different.
So without this planned rhythm of rest, we do eventually break, but with each planned Sabbath, our souls have time to refuel.
Jesus said this in John chapter 10, verse 10, he says, I have come that they may have life and have life to the full.
He's Sabbath creates the space in our lives to receive the fullness of life that Jesus promises.
Like Jason taught a couple of weeks ago to refill what work and life drains to restore what gets depleted.
So make Sabbath a part of the rhythm of your week.
Put it on the calendar.
Fourth way, to embrace Sabbath as well as to be with Jesus.
There's this profound scene in John chapter 13.
Now it's become what's known as the Last Supper, Jesus, the sitting around, the disciples.
He knows his time on earth.
is almost over and he wants to show his disciples what love truly looks like.
And so he gets up from the table, he wraps a towel around his waist and he begins washing the disciples' feet, something only at the time a servant would have done.
But Jesus is flipping the idea of power and sacrificial love completely upside down.
And then in the middle of this scene, John the author includes a detail that I've missed before, I don't miss it anymore.
And I don't want you to miss.
In John 13, verse 23, it says one of them, the disciple whom Jesus loved was reclining next to him.
Now this is John, the disciple, writing this about himself.
And I love this.
I love that confidence.
John is saying, I'm the one Jesus loves.
And guess what?
You and I can say the exact same thing.
I'm the one that Jesus loves.
He wants to hang out with us.
He likes us.
And then in verse 25, it says, leaning back against Jesus.
I just want you to picture this scene for a moment.
In a world that typically gets uncomfortable with physical closeness, John is so comfortable with Jesus.
So secure in their relationship and their friendship and their love that he literally leans back against him.
See, that's the deepest, most loving and intimate kind of relationship there is.
And Sabbath is meant to remind us that we also can have that kind of relationship with Jesus.
He is the one we can lean back on.
He is our ultimate rest.
He is the one who restores and satisfies our weary souls.
The ultimate gift of Sabbath is Jesus himself.
So we have to learn to be with him.
I love how Eugene Peterson
paraphrases Matthew 11 verse 28 through 30 in the message.
And this is Jesus speaking, says, are you tired, worn out, burned out on religion?
Come to me.
Get away with me and you'll recover your life.
I'll show you how to take a real rest.
Walk with me and work with me.
Watch how I do it.
Learn the unforced rhythms of grace.
I won't lay anything heavy or ill-fitting on you.
Jesus says, keep company with me, and you'll learn to live freely and lightly on the Sabbath.
Keep company with Jesus.
Now, practically, what does that look like?
It means prayer, talking to Jesus, tell them how you're feeling.
Spend some additional time reading the word.
Read a Christian book.
Listen to worship music.
Do whatever draws you closer to Jesus.
Go outside.
Be with Him.
Just envision Him around your life as you go about your day because rest is ultimately found in a relationship with Jesus.
We have to learn to be with Him.
Final way is this, it's worship.
Now, when we hear the word worship, we often think of singing, and worship absolutely includes singing, but it's far more than that.
Worship, ultimately, is directing our attention, our affection, and our lives back toward God.
And Sabbath gives us this weekly space to remember what matters most and who is deserving of our attention and affection.
See, on the Sabbath, we turn our hearts
toward the only one who is worthy of our lives, we worship Jesus.
And as we head into Christmas next week, it's worth remembering when Jesus was born, nothing was calm in the world at all.
There was this teenage couple explaining a miracle that no one really believed.
They had a forced journey to Bethlehem, a birth and a manger, then a violent king who was ordering other infants to be killed.
No peace, no stability.
And yet, as Louis Giglio said, in this manger, somehow there is a promise of peace.
See, on the Sabbath, we pause and we remember and we will worship the Savior who was born in a manger and came into this chaos to bring
promise of peace, which is what happened on Christmas Eve in 1914.
It's right there in the middle of World War I, which had become the deadliest conflict in history.
British and German soldiers sat exhausted in freezing trenches across from one another.
But then, a melody drifted across the battlefield, first from the Germans, still knocked, followed closely by the British and English silent night.
And moments later, both sides were singing Silent Night, Holy Night, all is calm, all is bright.
Right there in the middle of no man's land, which was considered the most dangerous place on earth at the time, they exchanged gifts, buried the dead, and prayed for one night there was peace because they worshiped.
See, maybe you've been trying to do life your way.
without this practice, this break of Sabbath.
But what if this was your Fosbury flop type of moment?
What if this was the time to incorporate a new way and approach to doing life?
So as we conclude, here's my very practical challenge.
Can you guess what it is?
It's to choose a Sabbath.
This week, Christmas is a perfect time to give it a go.
Ultimately, Christmas is Sabbath.
You enjoy gifts.
You be with one another.
You turn your attention to the Savior of the world.
So experiment, make space, and then plan for it in 2026.
Reminder, do whatever brings you joy.
Stop doing more.
Put it on the calendar.
Be with Jesus and worship for whatever period of time that you can carve out.
But as we close this series, we wanted to create one more moment of worship for you.
to provide some space for you.
And we rarely get this kind of space, but for the next five minutes to just sit under a song and allow God to restore and replenish your soul as you fix your attention on Him.
So as we sit under this and take in this beautiful next song, just allow God
to re-center your mind and your soul and your heart as we are reminded about this thrill of hope, the night that Christ
I forgot for you to experience God's peace, Heavenly Father.
Thank you for who you are.
Thank you for sending your son, Jesus.
And I know that so many people are experiencing so much.
All is not calm.
And yet, somehow, in the birth of your son, Jesus, in that manger, there is a promise of peace.
And so by faith, we cling to that.
We turn our attention, our affection towards you this season, no matter the busyness or the grief or the emotions that we're feeling or maybe just the normalcy of life.
God, we pray for just a reminder to be directed back to you, to turn our attention to you and that we had experienced the good things that you have given us despite some of the troubles.
Now we pray for Christmas, we pray that all that you are going to do Lord, we pray that people would turn to you maybe for the first time and we pray gone.
The ultimately we'd find our rest and our hope in you.
Thank you for this opportunity to worship you today.
We pray this all in Jesus name, amen.
If you'd like prayer, we'll have a prayer team down front who would love to pray with you.
Otherwise we'll see you next week for our Christmas services.